https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Zinsser::william zinsser - wikipedia william zinsser from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia jump to navigation jump to search american writer for the baseball pitcher and scout, see bill zinser. william knowlton zinsser (october 7, 1922 ? may 12, 2015) was an american writer, editor, literary critic, and teacher. he began his career as a journalist for the new york herald tribune, where he worked as a feature writer, drama editor, film critic and editorial writer. he was a longtime contributor to leading magazines. contents 1 early life and family 2 professional background 3 death 4 references 5 further reading 6 external links early life and family[edit] zinsser attended buckley country day school, deerfield academy and graduated from princeton university. he married carolyn fraser zinsser, with whom he had two children, including john zinsser, a painter. the zinssers lived in new york city and in niantic, connecticut.[1] one of his cousins married konrad adenauer; another was the spouse of john j. mccloy;[2] zinsser wrote, "so it happened that the two men who collaborated most closely on the creation of the new germany were zinsser relatives." professional background[edit] zinsser taught writing at yale university, where he was the fifth master of branford college (1973?1979).[3][citation needed] he served as executive editor of the book-of-the-month club from 1979 to 1987.[citation needed] he retired from teaching at the new school and the columbia university graduate school of journalism because of advancing glaucoma.[citation needed] [4] his 18 books include on writing well, which is in the 30th edition; writing to learn; writing with a word processor; mitchell & ruff (originally published as willie and dwike); spring training; american places; easy to remember: the great american songwriters and their songs; writing about your life; and most recently, writing places, an autobiography. the american scholar ran william zinsser's weekly web posting, "zinsser on friday," featuring his short essays on writing, the arts, and popular culture.[5] in his books, zinsser emphasizes the word "economy". author james j. kilpatrick, in his book the writer's art, says that if he were limited to just one book on how to write, it would be william zinsser's on writing well. he adds, "zinsser's sound theory is that 'writing improves in direct ratio to the number of things we can keep out of it."[6][7] zinsser encouraged memoir writers to believe in their own uniqueness and defined success as "doing what you want to do and doing it well".[8] zinsser interviewed woody allen in 1963 for the saturday evening post. after a chance encounter in 1980, allen cast zinsser, a protestant, in a small role as a catholic priest in his film stardust memories.[9] death[edit] zinsser died at the age of 92 in manhattan on may 12, 2015.[1] references[edit] ^ a b martin, douglas (may 12, 2015). "william zinsser, author of 'on writing well,' dies at 92". the new york times. retrieved may 13, 2015. ^ william zinsser, a cousin from cologne, the american scholar, march 25, 2011. ^ "remembering william zinsser (1922 - 2015) | english". english.yale.edu. retrieved october 27, 2016. ^ "a writing coach becomes a listener ? dan barry". the new york times. retrieved july 11, 2013. ^ "the complete zinsser on friday ? william zinsser". the american scholar. retrieved march 1, 2013. ^ zinsser, william (2006). on writing well. new york: harper collins. p. 12. isbn  978-0-06-089154-1 . ^ kilpatrick, james jackson (1984). "chapter 6 "the tools we live by"". the writer's art. kansas city: andrews mcmeel publishing. isbn  978-1-4494-0561-8 . ^ "william zinsser - modeling success series - #2 | embrace possibility blog". www.embracepossibility.com. retrieved february 5, 2017. ^ zinsser, william. "my stardust memories". the american scholar. retrieved april 19, 2012. further reading[edit] contemporary authors online. the gale group, 2006. pen (permanent entry number): 0000023043 external links[edit] wikiquote has quotations related to: william zinsser official website william zinsser at imdb nyu's fales library guide to the william zinsser papers interview with william zinsser (with original audio) - modeling success series - embrace possibility wesleyan commencement speech transcript - embrace possibility blog authority control general integrated authority file (germany) isni 1 viaf 1 worldcat national libraries france (data) united states czech republic israel korea netherlands poland other faceted application of subject terminology social networks and archival context sudoc (france) 1 retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=william_zinsser&oldid=989413417" categories: 1922 births 2015 deaths american literary critics american protestants buckley country day school alumni columbia university graduate school of journalism faculty deerfield academy alumni journalists from new york city new york herald tribune people the new school faculty yale university faculty writers of style guides hidden categories: articles with short description short description is different from wikidata use mdy dates from october 2015 all articles with unsourced statements articles with unsourced statements from march 2013 articles with gnd identifiers articles with isni identifiers articles with viaf identifiers articles with worldcatid identifiers articles with bnf identifiers articles with lccn identifiers articles with nkc identifiers articles with nli identifiers articles with nlk identifiers articles with nta identifiers articles with plwabn identifiers articles with fast identifiers articles with snac-id identifiers articles with sudoc identifiers navigation menu personal tools not logged in talk contributions create account log in namespaces article talk variants expanded collapsed views read edit view history more expanded collapsed search navigation main page contents current events random article about wikipedia contact us donate contribute help learn to edit community portal recent changes upload file tools what links here related changes upload file special pages permanent link page information cite this page wikidata item print/export download as pdf printable version in other projects wikiquote languages ????? ???? ??????? simple english ?????????? edit links this page was last edited on 18 november 2020, at 21:04 (utc). text is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license; additional terms may apply. by using this site, you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy. wikipedia? is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a non-profit organization. privacy policy about wikipedia disclaimers contact wikipedia mobile view developers statistics cookie statement
